# Approach 1 (Fast and simple)
1. Create a Set from `nums` so we can access the elements of `nums` directly by it's value. This will also remove duplicates (not really matter though)
2. Loop through set, we will find the sequence in descending order (large to small)
3. `if (set.has(num + 1))`, there are bigger numbers in the set, so we skip
4. Initiate `counter` with 1 then increment it everytime there is `current - 1` in the set. This loop will stop when we reach the end of the sequence
5. Find the `longest` by comparing the current longest value with `count`.


# Complexity
###### Time complexity, let's break it down
- Creating set the set takes $$O(n)$$ time.
- There is a `while loop` inside `for loop`, but the time complexity is not $$O(n^2)$$, why is that the case?
We will iterate through the set using `for loop`, this will take $$O(k)$$ time, with `k` as the number of unique elements in `nums`. The worst case is all elements in `nums` is unique, so we take $$O(n)$$ time complexity for the `for loop`.
When the `while loop` executed, it will take $$O(n)$$ for the worst case scenario (every number is a consecutive sequence).
BUT, because of this condition: `if (set.has(num + 1)) continue`, the `while loop` wouldn't be executed for every element. 
So, we can say that the time complexity for the loop is $$O(n)$$
- In conclusion, the time complexity of the algorithm is $$O(n)$$.
- Note: getting and adding element in Set are constant times.
###### Space complexity: $$O(n)$$ for the Set.

# Code
```ts
function longestConsecutive(nums: number[]): number {
    const set = new Set(nums);
    let longest = 0;

    for (const num of nums) {
        if (set.has(num + 1)) continue

        let count = 1, current = num;
        while (set.has(--current)) count++;

        longest = Math.max(count, longest);
    }

    return longest;
};
```

# Approach 2
This is my first attempt (and it works), I just want to save it here. The time and space complexity is $$O(n)$$. The idea is similar, but I used `visited` to save the visited element (i treat element like alinked list node), and `lengthMap` to save the length of the sequence. The `lengthMap` only used so it wouldn't recalculate the length of a subsequence (memoization).
But `set.has(num + 1)` is the better skip condition than `visited.has(num)`


```ts
function longestConsecutive2(nums: number[]): number {
    let set = new Set(nums)

    let longest = 0
    const visited = new Set()
    const lengthMap = new Map()

    for (const num of set) {
        if (visited.has(num)) continue
        
        if (lengthMap.has(num + 1)) {
            const len = lengthMap.get(num + 1) + 1
            lengthMap.set(num, len)
            visited.add(num)
            longest = Math.max(longest, len)
            continue
        }

        let count = 1
        let curr = num
        while (set.has(curr + 1)) {
            count++
            visited.add(curr)
            curr++
        }

        lengthMap.set(num, count)
        longest = Math.max(longest, count)
    }

    return longest
};
```